README.md, before:

# Adventures into AI: the Chrome T-Rex Runner

Tested on Ubuntu 16.04, with Python 3.5.4, OpenCV 3.1.0. Likely **not** to work
on Windows or Mac OSX.

## Quickstart

Compile the C library `prtscr.c` for fast screen capture in X11 environments
(courtesy of [this SO answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/16141058])).

    gcc -shared -O3 -lX11 -fPIC -Wl,-soname,prtscn -o prtscn.so prtscn.c
    # use the command below if the above command doesn't work
    # gcc -shared -O3 -fPIC -Wl,-soname,prtscn -o prtscn.so prtscn.c -lX11

**Note:** The screen capture library can be too fast for some computers. Make
sure you add a delay using `time.sleep()` to prevent crashes. `agent_cv.py` has
this already coded-in.

Run the agent, point to your browser window and run the game (you might want to
adjust the `FRAME_X` and `FRAME_Y` position of the screen capture window to
adapt for your monitor in `config.py`).

    python agent_cv.py

## Dependencies

The T-rex runner game can be played on modern Google Chrome browsers when there
is no internet connectivity. But there are open-source versions thanks to the
[Chromium project](https://www.chromium.org/) and the distribution used for
this project is found at [wayou's GitHub project](https://github.com/wayou/t-rex-runner/).

The AI also uses typical Python libraries for matrix manipulations and keypress
interfaces:

- `numpy >= 1.12`: matrix handling
- `opencv >= 3.1.0`: fast image processing
- PyUserInput `== 0.1.11`: automating user input to global windows
- `pyxhook` for Python 3: global user inputs capturing for X11 environment

## How it Works

### Computer Vision (CV) Agent

The CV Agent a simple computer vision AI which finds the bounding boxes of
approaching objects. If a cactus or a pterodactyl comes close enough to T-rex,
the agent will press `Space` to indicate a jumping action. It also accounts for
objects flying higher than the T-rex.

### Convolutional Net (CN) Agent

The CN agent uses labelled images to predict the action on a particular frame.
Using the training data collected by the KL agent, we have an image-action pair
which can be subjected to a normal supervised learning optimization. Currently,
no time-based measures are taken (i.e. convolving over time on multiple
consecutive frames). The agent also shows the confidence of the predictions as
bar plots on the top-left hand corner of the agent screen.

### Keyboard-Logging (KL) Agent

The KL Agent is not a game playing-agent, but instead is a data collection
agent which interfaces with the user inputs as they play the game. The agent
collects grayscale images of the game area (sized down to quarter size) and the
corresponding action at that frame. ~~The images and action vectors are then
stored in an `.npz` file.~~ Saving as `.npy` files are more performant.

## Wishlist

This started as a OpenCV weekend exercise which went real. I want to see what
the limits of ML are just based on captured images, rather than having
"physics data" from the actual game. Things I'd like to try out:

- Train an agent via supervised learning using ~50000 images.
- Train a convolutional neural network to predict the actions. Possibly with
  policy gradients.

Commit message:

Readme updates for conv net agent

README.md, after:

# Adventures into AI: the Chrome T-Rex Runner

Tested on Ubuntu 16.04, with Python 3.5.4, OpenCV 3.1.0. Likely **not** to work
on Windows or Mac OSX.

## Quickstart

Compile the C library `prtscr.c` for fast screen capture in X11 environments
(courtesy of [this SO answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/16141058])).

    gcc -shared -O3 -lX11 -fPIC -Wl,-soname,prtscn -o prtscn.so prtscn.c
    # use the command below if the above command doesn't work
    # gcc -shared -O3 -fPIC -Wl,-soname,prtscn -o prtscn.so prtscn.c -lX11

**Note:** The screen capture library can be too fast for some computers. Make
sure you add a delay using `time.sleep()` to prevent crashes. `agent_cv.py` has
this already coded-in.

Run the agent, point to your browser window and run the game (you might want to
adjust the `FRAME_X` and `FRAME_Y` position of the screen capture window to
adapt for your monitor in `config.py`).

    python agent_cv.py

## Dependencies

The T-rex runner game can be played on modern Google Chrome browsers when there
is no internet connectivity. But there are open-source versions thanks to the
[Chromium project](https://www.chromium.org/) and the distribution used for
this project is found at [wayou's GitHub project](https://github.com/wayou/t-rex-runner/).

The AI also uses typical Python libraries for matrix manipulations and keypress
interfaces:

- `numpy >= 1.12`: matrix handling
- `keras == 2.1.6`: deep learning library.
*Important: the models can only be loaded on this version of Keras.*
- `opencv >= 3.1.0`: fast image processing
- PyUserInput `== 0.1.11`: automating user input to global windows
- `pyxhook` for Python 3: global user inputs capturing for X11 environment

## How it Works

### Computer Vision (CV) Agent

The CV Agent a simple computer vision AI which finds the bounding boxes of
approaching objects. If a cactus or a pterodactyl comes close enough to T-rex,
the agent will press `Space` to indicate a jumping action. It also accounts for
objects flying higher than the T-rex.

### Convolutional Net (CN) Agent

The CN agent uses labelled images to predict the action on a particular frame.
Using the training data collected by the KL agent, we have an image-action pair
which can be subjected to a normal supervised learning optimization. Currently,
no time-based measures are taken (i.e. convolving over time on multiple
consecutive frames). The agent also shows the confidence of the predictions as
bar plots on the top-left hand corner of the agent screen.

### Keyboard-Logging (KL) Agent

The KL Agent is not a game playing-agent, but instead is a data collection
agent which interfaces with the user inputs as they play the game. The agent
collects grayscale images of the game area (sized down to quarter size) and the
corresponding action at that frame. ~~The images and action vectors are then
stored in an `.npz` file.~~ Saving as `.npy` files are more performant.

## Wishlist

This started as a OpenCV weekend exercise which went real. I want to see what
the limits of ML are just based on captured images, rather than having
"physics data" from the actual game. Things I'd like to try out:

- [x] Train an OpenCV agent. *Implemented `agent_cv.py`.*
- [x] Train a conv net with supervised learning using ~50000 images.
*Implemented `agent_cn.py` and the `DinoBot.h5` Keras model.*
- [ ] Train a conv net with policy gradients.
